---
title: CodeLand 2020
path: codeland-2020
date: 2020-07-31
tags: ['coding', 'conferences']
---

Due to COVID-19, [CodeLand 2020](https://codelandconf.com/) was decided to be hosted online. The conference was for 2 days, one for talks and the other for workshops. The first day was free so I was able to attend the talks from some awesome people, from well-known in the dev community to first-time speakers new to the coding world.

I've been trying to embrace more online tech events due to being kept from traveling during this time. To be honest, I wasn't expecting much from _another_ online conference. Each one has its similar features, talks with live chats where your messages often get lost in the stream of thousands of viewers with another part for "booths" for sponsors to introduce themselves and give away digital swag and the implied possibility of helping you get a job opportunity in their company. I found these setups to be impersonal and hard to follow. Most of the time I was trying to have sponsors open in one tab with the live stream in another, and it wasn't the sort of scheduled view of watching a speaker for 20 min and _then_ moving on to talk with other devs. Everything was squished together.

So, yeah, I didn't think I would be very impressed with CodeLand 2020's presentation. I was sorely mistaken.

DEV's platform was perfect with speakers having a blog post for their slides and recorded video to be reviewed and referred to for someone that couldn't stay on the live stream all day (like me).

I bookmarked everyone's talk and wanted to do what I did in last year's CodeLand 2019 post and give a brief description for each one.

---

## Being Utterly Fearless in Your Pursuit of Learning to Code with Alex Morton

Alex is a first-time speaker who did an amazing job at presenting her experience in how she started her interest in coding and what keeps her coming back.

When she was in her remote job in a start-up working in customer support, she would notice that the engineers would usually celebrate when an update or features been pushed out. There's a question that came to her when this happened: "Where are all the women?".

After coding as a hobby for about 1.5 years, she chose to learn programming full-time.

Alex's 5 nuggets of wisdom when learning to code:

1. Cultivate your why: When working in her job, she noticed there weren't really any women in these engineering teams. Wanted to make herself more marketable. Unique to you - but connect to something bigger.

2. Err on the side of taking action: Reject perfectionism and take the next step

3. Dive in and identify your knowledge gaps: Trust your curiosity and move away from tutorials.

4. Be the creative director in your own life: Pursue creative impulses and chase your mindset.

5. Play the long game and have fun: Build systems and habits and embrace your unique journey.

Alex also has created the [Ladies Code Collective Podcast](https://www.ladiescodecollective.com/) for women learning to code and embracing their creativity.

[Post](https://dev.to/alexlsalt/being-utterly-fearless-in-your-pursuit-of-learning-to-code-with-alex-morton-5o0)

---

## An Introduction To IoT with Joe Karlsson

> "It's just the internet but with 'things' on it."

Internet of Things(IOT) is a technique to connecting the internet to objects for different uses. I have seen it used for some very useful inventions - but Joe liked to point out that he really just likes the weird art projects people have made.

IOT with JavaScript and Node since JavaScript is so commonly used, the internet uses it and apparently 50% of IOT devs identify as Node developers. Why teach yourself a whole new programming language to learn abut IOT? It's way too much of a learning curve.

I found Joe's enthusiastic personality to learning about IOT to be very encouraging for anyone hesitant to learn about IOT for the first time. Instead of coming up with a new app to monetize, you should just build a "stupid project". Something that interests you, regardless of whoever else will think it's cool.

He presented his IOT kitty litter box project which would send data to MongoDB on the current weight of the litter box by installing a bathroom scale connected to the internet with timestamps.

Hello World is just making an LED light blink.

[Post](https://dev.to/joekarlsson/an-introduction-to-iot-with-joe-karlsson-2b8l)

---

Seeing Sound with Amit Nambiar



[Post](https://dev.to/amitlzkpa/seeing-sound-with-amit-nambiar-18ik)

---

[Found a typo or problem? Edit this page.](https://github.com/Dana94/website/blob/master/blog/2019-07-07-open-source.md)
